HTML Structure Website
<!DOCTYPE html>
<head>
meta charset tag
meta viewport tag
meta description tag
title tag
style.css tag  --> Link tag
script tag  --> Link tag
</head>
<body>  --------> Main conent of the HTML Structure
content
<script tag
</body>
</html>

Q Why we write all of these tags in html structure?

If anything change in css file in case we reolad web page 
If anything change in html file in case you don't reload web page it's automaticaly change ownself with the help of live preview.

Q what is a meta tag and why we use this tag in html?
Mata tag is a Self Closing tag
Meta basically describes How HTML Document, Insert Keywords, Insert Description

Meta Description tag is a important keyword for SEO.

There ara a two main tags i.e
Self Closing tag
OR
Paired tag : Opening tag and closing tag 

Search engine used or passed Title tags.
Title tag desribes page content
Title change is the SEO Practice

So the script tag you can put it just before the body and above and what is the difference
we will talk about it in the next course. InshA'Allah...

lang and name is the attirbute of the HTML structure.

lang is equal to en is an attribute
it is inside any tag
lang is equal to en
so lang is an attribute whose value is en
so these key value pairs are used

use copy paste wisely

Mobile Preview Tip:

Now I will tell you about a technique, with which you can see this website
Whatever we will develop here, you will be able to see it in this mobile
Now listen to the steps carefully, right click, open terminal
And write ipconfig, if you are in the old version, then you can open command prompt or powershell after writing ipconfig, as soon as you enter
you will see ipv4 address 192.168.1.199
now the ip address we have got here, I will copy it
so I will copy this ipv4 address
and in my settings, I will write live preview
this local IP host address to host your files on is written
I will write my ip address in its place and on This is written I will write my IP address instead of this
And after doing this
I will restart my VS code
You have to ensure one more thing
That you go to your Wi-Fi settings
Make your network a private network
It should not be a public network
It should be a private network
Network and internet
Wi-Fi
Whichever Wi-Fi you are connected to
Make it a private network
And now you will right click and click on show preview
and you will see your ip address
I can use this on my phone as well
so I will quickly enter my ip address
so I have entered 192.168.1.199
colon 5000, you can also enter 3000
whatever your port is, you can enter that
and you can see my website has been previewed on the mobile.
This trick is very useful when we want to preview on our mobile.
Because nowadays most of the websites are seen on the phone.
So we want our phone users to be able to enjoy our website.
And we are developing in the computer, so that testing will be done.


The most important part of being a senior software developer is to where to copy paste from
which stack overflow question to copy paste from and how to paste it from where
Copyright Code Ve Dayari, 2026, whatever you understand I have said my copyright statement, 
but this statement is very strong.