CSS Variables:

Sometimes when you make templates, you want to put some variables in it. For example, suppose you have made a website whose theme is a little blackish.

Now you want to convert it into a red color theme or blue color theme. You can do this by changing the value of just one variable. This can be possible through CSS variables.

Q: What are variables? 
Q: Why do we use them? 
Q: How to use them?

If you do programming, then you must have heard a lot about variables in programming language.
And the role of variables here is almost the same.

I am writing inline CSS, you don't write try not to write inline CSS make external sheets whenever you are making production websites I am writing inline css, you don't write, try not to write inline css make external sheets whenever you are making production websites but worry not, I will show you by making production websites from there you will get a better idea how to make websites

display flex, ok, now display flex I have not told you, I know that, but I just want to make it horizontal like this, ok, if I want, I can also inline it, but that's not a good idea, so I am not doing it, but ok, what happens with display flex, we will see in the coming videos, but for now you understand that where the items were falling down, I have put them horizontally, ok, so I did UL display flex here and in LI I will also give padding and margin and I know placed the items horizontally so I have done ul display flex and I will also give padding and margin in li

I can declare variables in CSS and I can say that I have some global variables so you will not write global variables like in javascript or c language that a is equal to 2, a is equal to 3 No, CSS is not a programming language.

Suppose I want primary color, I want this and I want secondary color, suppose this And wherever my primary and secondary color is used in the whole website, it will change, so by changing only two variables, I can change the colors of my whole website, now this color can be used 50 times in the whole website, this color can be used in 2-5 places, so in total, the work that I have to do individually for different elements I have done that work easily

How I have done it easily I have made a variable I have made a global variable so in root we make global variable whatever is there in root is global variable now if I want just for this ul I need color or if the first child of or say if ul is first child ul li is first child

So i want to change its color let us say its background color for some reason i want to make a dark version so i want to change the color variable so i can change the color variable so I can change this color and make it a local variable so when I make a local variable here, then this color will be used and if I have declared a global variable here then wherever I will use this color variable this global variable will be used but because I have overwrited my color variable in this block you guys see here I will make it green or let's go for orange I will make it orange and you can see that the background of the first child of li has become orange so I can do something like this, first child of li has become orange and if I want to change the color of this or change the secondary color then I can do that too, suppose I want the color of li to be equal to the secondary color then I can do that too, so in this block wherever I will refer the color, there what will happen that the value I have overwritten will be used, so this was our global variable, this was our local variable in total this is the thing in CSS variable, why do we use it? that if a color is being used 50 times in your entire website, then will you change it one by one? no, you will change the color theme by changing just one, this is the concept of variable in CSS there is no big rocket science, now another question is what will happen if the variable is not found? If the variable is not found, then you can give a fallback variable like this.

So suppose there is no value of color name anywhere. I will remove it here also. So I will say here that find a variable of color name. If you don't get a variable of color name, then you use blue color. So you see here that blue color will be used in my website. Because the variable of color will be used because here color name variable is not available, I have commented it out but as soon as I make it visible here, you can see here that again no work of this blue color is left because my color property is defined so these are the properties of CSS.

Now one more thing I want to tell you that css variable is not necessary to hold only colors, css variables can hold your other properties for example if i show that suppose defpad means default padding suppose i want to give 23px so instead of giving a padding i can use var and i can use defpad i mean i said i want to use this variable I can use the wire padding or I can use the def pad I want to use this variable and if I show you so the padding is def pad and you can see how much padding is there def pad is 23px so it is 23px so here you can use the pixels or the units of length and you can use the length units you can use that here and along with that you can use other things here, for example I want to do opacity.

Let us say I want to say that opacity of this should be 0.3 ok, let's say I want opacity of li to be 0.3, see how much it has faded ok, so I can save this opacity and I can make a def minus minus def op and i will say def op is 0.2 and here i will use def op i will say var and def op and you can see here that opacity is 0.2 how will you know that it is 0.2 inspect this and here the def op the def op that we have that will be visible here where did I put the def op

let me see, I have put it on li so let's select li and here you can see the def op is 0.2 ok, so the def op is 0.2 because its value is 0.2 ok, I hope you guys understood this

If I want this default opacity to change everywhere then I will make it 0.4 wherever I am using 0.4 there it will be 0.4 and I hope this thing is clear to you if you want to decode what value will be default then click on it you can see 0.4 here so in total you can use CSS variables like this that's pretty much about CSS variables, it's not necessary that it's colors it is asked in the interview that can CSS variables only hold colors you have to say no, it can hold any kind of values and you have to tell what kind of values it can hold it can hold background URLs, strings, numbers, all these things can be held so basically the things you will find yourself changing in your website in 10 places or even in 50 places, who knows how big a website you are making you can make it a variable and change it in one place so whenever we make websites, we will use CSS variables very cleverly we will change it in one place, we will make a color with the name of theme now if someone wants the same website in purple theme or if someone wants the same website in any other color theme he can choose his color, I hope this is clear to you.