Learning the concept of inline and block elements in HTML is very important.

Q What are Inline Elements?
Inline elements do not start on a new line and only take up as much width as necessary.

Inline elements are those which take only this much width as required.

Q What are Block-level Elements?
Block-level elements are those that start on a new line nd take up the entire width of their container by default. They essentially claim all the horizontal space for themselves, pushing any content that comes after them to a new line.
And block elements are those which take the full width of the screen.
This is also called display property which can be set through CSS.

Q What are inline elements and why I would like to use them.
Inline elements are those elements that take only as much width as necessary.
Block elements do not take as much width as necessary.
No, they say we need full width.
Some people sit spread out.

paragragh is a Block Element
anchor is an Inline Element

Now you see the difference, I will click here and as soon as I click here, you see
that the background color that he got, he got the full width.
But he got only as much as this element. Why did this happen? you can see that the background color is the same as the width but this one has only the same amount of elements
why is this?
this is because this paragraph is a block element
and our anchor tag is inline element
inline elements only take the amount of space they need
block elements take the entire width
and the next content comes below that
when we take the entire width, the next content will come below that
along with that, if i talk about div
that is a block element
and span is
like div but it is an inline element
i am span and i am inline
and if i put an anchor tag
and write yes he is inline


Now, will the anchor tag always be inline?
Will the paragraph tag always be blocked?
will this thing always be there?
the answer is no, you can change it
you can set the display property of any particular element with CSS.

Comprehensive list for Inline and Block Elements
now which elements are inline and which are block
how will you know that
how will you know div is block and span is inline
so this comes with practice
but I have made a comprehensive list for you
of inline and block elements
here is the list of block elements
in which I have written the most commonly used elements first.
Like div is the most used, then paragraph.
And if you come to the end, you will find such elements
which may not be very used.
Maybe you don't even know about them,
but you will know later.
And it is not possible for me to tell all the elements here,
so you guys do some self-learning too.
Definitely there are a lot of such elements
which will come to you in very little use
But the most commonly used ones will be shown to you
Then I have made a list of inline elements below
So you refer this comprehensive list.
Here I have made a file named comprehensive list.txt
So you refer this file
Along with that, the code you have should not have any unnecessary space
As I was telling you that this space is not parsed.
In fact, if you right-click and do the format document,
then your document will be formatted.
Write good code, write such a code that
when your grandchildren open your Zankila laptop in the future
and they get this code, they will say that
Dadaji used to write good code.
Don't say that Dadaji used to put such a space,
then Dadaji used to do this, this, this. So you will want to be how to use it, then you can use it.

Q How you can use CSS to set inline flex,
inline block, and display properties. and what is the difference in them.
So we will see all these things in the coming videos.