In today's video, we will learn how audio, video and media elements are used in HTML.
We saw in our very first video that we can embed videos in HTML.
Today I will tell you how the video is auto-played,
how to keep a muted video and how you can enable and disable the video controls.
Along with that, we will also see very closely about audio,
how media can be shown in an overall page

Topic Overview: Video, Audio, Media:
How to play a video, how to put a video in an html file
How to put audio, how to put media

The Video Tag and Attributes
SRC Attribute and Video Sizing
Making Video Responsive

Video Tags:
Now here are some attributes of the video tag.
It is very simple to use the video tag.

The first attribute is SRC.
So you know that put the video here.
The name of the video file is SRC.
This video file can also come from an external URL.

If I have uploaded a video on Amazon S3 or somewhere else,
then I can also put the URL of that video here.
It is not necessary that the file is in your computer.
It can also be on your server.
It can also come from a third party.
Now what does the control do?
Adds video controls like play, pause and volume.
Which we saw here in the video of Bhupendra Jogi.
You are getting to see the controls here.
Now what is this thing? The browser automatically sees what control ads will be in your video,

AutoPlay Attribute
Removing AutoPlay
Loop Attribute
Muted Attribute

The next attribute is muted, muted mutes the video.
So if I write here muted, sometimes we want the video to be muted.
In fact, when I add videos here on codewithhari.com
and I demonstrate something like downloading VS code or something
then I use the muted attribute.
Because I don't want that when I record a video,
if there is any background noise, you can hear it
for example, I want to show you that this is the element
so I will scroll and make a video
I will highlight it like this, so I don't need audio in it
so I mute it
so you can use muted attribute in your websites

Poster Attribute

then poster, poster is very important
so I have an image here
download.jpg
if I write here poster is equal to and I, download.jpg If I write here, poster is equal to
the video will play, so in a way it's a thumbnail
you have seen the thumbnail of a YouTube video
it's exactly the same, this poster attribute

Introduction to Audio
SRC Attribute
AutoPlay Attribute
Removing AutoPlay
Loop Attribute
Muted Attribute

Preload Attribute:
now preload, the most confusing attribute
that's why I have explained it on codewithaddy.com
that the preload attribute can have these values
the first value can be none, this is the default value
it indicates that the browser should not preload the audio at all
preload means if you want the browser to fetch the data from the beginning then you will use the preload attribute
otherwise you will not use the preload attribute, preload is equal to none, default value, preload is equal to metadata means
that the browser will preload the information about the audio file, means it will preload the audio file
And by auto, browser will preload the audio file
So preload is equal to auto, so it will download and automatically load
So that whenever user plays it, it will save the audio
So this is the work of preload attribute
And this is asked a lot in interviews, So you should know what is preload attribute.

SVG in HTML

Next topic is SVG
Related to media

What is SVG?
SVG is a format through which you can create images
With high graphics
So if you copy you can make high graphics vector images so if you copy you can make circle
so svg is used exactly like
how our img tag is used
so if i put svg here
so this svg will come here
video, audio, svg are inline elements
that's why we are seeing them in one line

xml something like this
you have to add this, it is called namespace declaration
so you have to add this It's called namespace declaration So you have to add this SVG

iFrames:

Next topic is iframes
Iframes is a very simple thing
You can embed another website in your website
Like if I want to embed this webpage
I can use iframes like this
I will copy this url
I will paste it here
And you can see that this website is completely embedded here
in this small iFrame, okay?
You definitely want to embed it in a big iFrame
but if you want it to be embedded, then you can embed it like this
I will do one thing, I will increase its height a little
so width is equal to width is written
width is equal to let's say 122
height is equal to 444, okay?
Assume, so see it came like this, okay, now definitely it was coming in this width,
so it came in this line, but if I increase the width a little,
let's say I increase the width, 322, okay,
so see here, my website is completely embedded,
are you seeing, so you can embed a website,
another use case of iframe is YouTube video,
if you want to share youtube video
and click on embed
it will give you iframe code
and you can start it from here
if you want to start at a particular time
you can do that
the point at which you will start and share
that time will come here
let me show you
let's say I want to start from here
let's say video starts from here so I will click on share
after that I will click on embed
I will start at 12.19
and I will copy it
there is a copy button
and I will put it in my code
so I will comment this iframe
and I will put it in the iframe below
I will wrap the word so that you can see the code properly
so now what I will do is after pasting this I will show word wrap so that you can see the code properly. So now what I will do is after pasting this,
I will show you the document.
See this video is embedded here.
So I hope you understood this thing.