In this video, we will know what are forms and what is the input tag in the form.
Using a form is a very important element of some websites because through the form, you submit data from client to server.
These are the forms that you see on contact pages, Google forms or inquiry forms.
The date and time to go to the flight or railway ticket, all these details we put, they also submit through html forms. In the last video, very few people liked it, I will request you
to like this video with high energy so that we can maintain high energy throughout the course.
So let's go to the computer screen, we will see about the forms, we will see about the input tags and we will see some best practices.

Live Preview Setting in External Mode: 
here i want to tell you a very important setting
of the show preview
now many people have also pointed out to me in the comment that
I have to click so many times, can I do something?
Yes you can, click on gear below, click on settings
And after clicking on settings, what you do simply
Write live preview here, live preview
And we can actually set it such that whenever we click
So what happens is that it will open on the external browser
so now I will close everything, as soon as I click here, it will open on the external browser
and I come to my browser and the playlist of the Sigma web development course is being accessed
by clicking here on the star and here on the bookmark
but now I want to tell you that as soon as we click here, you see it opened
so if you want this, then do this, but sometimes what happens is that you want to prefer side by side view.
And when would you like to do that?
When you are actually working on a design using HTML, CSS.
So whenever you are working on design,
definitely you guys would like to see live previews here.
Which is why this extension was made.
And it was made different from the live server
so that you can see the preview on the side.

Forms:
Now what we will do here, we will know about the forms
What is a form? You know the name of the form, it means a railway form
We fill it and our reservation is done

HTML is a form tag, as soon as you write form, you will hit enter,
in this way, the first question will ask you, what is the action of your form,
 <form action=""></form>
get or post, let me tell you a very quick difference between get request and post request,
that is, we will see this thing later when we will read the backend,
get request is a very simple request, and post request is when we send,
in most of the cases, when we have to give a lot of data,
like whenever our form will be posted
so in most of the cases we will use the post request
and get request is a very simple request
that we have to tell the server something
and that's it or we have to hit the server with a request
that's it

so form action is equal to post I wrote, now I can show some input tags in it.

Input Tag: 

I will tell you what are input tags, that what elements will come in your form,
like you can put a date, you can put in the form, you can say name, you can say phone number,
you can say what is your age, it can be just a number you want to put such things in the form, so I want to tell you here
that the input tag that you put inside the form

there is a label tag
which is used to label that input

the simplest input tag is type is equal to text

Enter your username. This is our input tag,
Along with the input tag,we use the label tag,

Label Tag:

Now whose label is this? So I will write its id for is equal to,

Now what is this id? I will tell you later,
For now, you just understand that this is a unique identifier of an element,
To identify this element uniquely, like your Aadhar number can't be of anyone else,
in the same way, this ID username has been given to it,
now it can't be given to anyone else. This is the ID.

now what happens here is that sometimes we wrap it in div
what is div?
div is our block element

Q What are inline and block elements
I put it in div, it will come in a new space.

Yes, there is also a br tag, which causes line break.
But I don't prefer br tag and you will get to know why.
Q Why we don't want to bloat our html with br tag.

Shortcut:
 Alt + cursor up and down 

 input:text
 <input type="text" id="username" name="username" placeholder="Enter your username">
 input:radio
 <input type="radio" name="gender" id="male" value="Male">
 <input type="radio" name="gender" id="female" value="Female">
 input:checkbox
 <input type="checkbox" name="subscribe" id="subscribe" value="yes">
 Textarea Tag
 <!-- <textarea name="comment" cols="50" rows="4">Enter your comment here...
            </textarea> -->
<textarea name="comment" id="comment" cols="50" rows="4"></textarea>
 Select Tag

For now, I just put br tag, but I don't recommend br tag.
I am telling you again that I do not recommend br tag at all.
Because br tag has problems.
By the way, you should know br tag, there is a line break tag,
a line break comes from it
what is the problem in br tag
but i will tell you br tag is something that i don't recommend
it's not like that you don't have to use it but i don't recommend using it all the time
i mean the easiest thing is that people think that you can add br tag and add new spaces

When we will parse this form data, then I will tell you in the part of JavaScript, how to take this data and send it to the server
So there are many things about the form that are remaining, I am going to tell you, so stay tuned for that

About the form, the rest of the attributes, like action, I told you
You can submit a form on any page with action and where it will handle the form
So you can give that data here
Then there is a method, get request or post request
I will tell you the difference in these two in the coming videos
But I have told you in a very rough way
That get request is a very rough way
GetRequest is a very simple request, PostRequest is used when you have to send big data to the server
Because there is a limit to GetRequest, you can send a lot of data in PostRequest
We never send passwords in GetRequest, we send it with the help of PostRequest

Now here I have told the method, what happens in the name? name is equal to username means we mark it with the name
if we mark it with the name, then the server will know which key value is corresponding to it
so the key value that will go to the server will go according to the name
its name and value will go, okay?
so we will see this too when we do server side processing

New HTML5 Attributes

Q What is the meaning of placeholder?
placeholder means what will be written inside it
like here see enter your username, placeholder
if I click on this, then this enter your username is not written inside placeholder if I click on it, it will not say enter your username
I will write anything, see it came
but enter your username is telling me here that I have to put username in it

Q What does autofocus do?
autofocus automatically focuses the cursor, so I will show you the magic of autofocus
so if you have written autofocus in the input tag
ok, so I have written autofocus in the username, now I will reload it
so now see if I type on it, it will automatically focus on it
so by autofocus, it happens that whenever you type, it will be typed here
<input type="text" id="username" name="username" placeholder="Enter your username" autofocus>

HTML5 Validation Attributes

Q What is the meaning of required?
you have to require it
you have to put the value of it or else your form will not be submitted
so we will use this a lot


Pattern [regular expresssion]

You can give a pattern, in which you can give regular expression pattern
Now don't get confused, don't say what are you talking about
we don't know regular expression, so I am sitting here to teach you all
But you understand that we will accept only one particular pattern
If we have put pattern is equal to this, then you can't put anything else than this pattern