JavaScript Exercise 10 - Business Name Generator

JavaScript is used a lot to make SaaS products. SaaS stands for Software as a Service. Today we will make a
SaaS product which is a simple business name generator. 

A very good example of SaaS product is Canva. 

It used JavaScript to create a product which is a big hit in the world of design. Today I want you to 
understand my question and try to make this business name generator By this you will know how to solve real 
world problems with the help of javascript.

So you have to generate a business name by combining three different words so how will that business name 
be generated so here I will give you some adjectives like I will give you crazy, I will give you amazing, 
I will give you some adjectives like crazy, amazing fire you have to use these three in the starting so this 
is our list of adjectives and I want to tell you that you don't have to use arrays if you use arrays then I will 
consider you that you are depending on arrays and you are not a good JavaScript developer because I am giving you
a restriction here I am telling you that you have to do something like this that you will not use arrays you will 
use functions and you will use strings so you have to use these adjectives in the first word.

After this what you have to do in shop name you have to use something like this engine or you have to do in shop 
name, use something like this engine or you want to do foods or after that you can do whose shop we open, garments 
ok, something like this and after this you want to use another word ok use a bros, you want to use a limited and 
you want to use a bros, you have to use a limited and you have to use a hub now you have to take one word from this,
one word from this and one word from this randomly and generate a new name, a business name will be generated like 
crazy foods limited, like crazy engine hub.

A name like this will be generated, don't use arrays you will use disqualify exercise you have to make a string 
and write it generate random numbers, all that is allowed you can use functions, don't use arrays. 

I am giving you a challenge that you don't have to use arrays I hope you will solve this exercise.